RMIT Annual Fee Setting Process
Source: https://policies.rmit.edu.au/document/view.php?id=147

PURPOSE

This procedure provides the requirements and approval authorities for the setting and publication of RMIT's student tuition, administrative, materials, and student services and amenities fees and charges.

SCOPE

This procedure applies to staff involved in setting the fees and charges for RMIT University, RMIT Training and RMIT Online. It does not apply to setting fees and charges for RMIT Vietnam, RMIT English Worldwide, RMIT Short Courses, RMIT University offshore partner institutions, RMIT University industry partner agreements, or programs and courses offered via Open Universities Australia. Minimum student contribution amounts for Commonwealth Supported Places and maximum Student Services and Amenities Fees are established annually by the Australian Government.

ANNUAL FEE SETTING - TUITION FEES

Experience and Strategic Finance jointly manage the annual setting of tuition fees. Fee coordinators from each college and service portfolio must seek approval from the relevant Deputy Vice-Chancellor (for RMIT University), Chief Executive Officer or relevant Deputy Vice-Chancellor (for RMIT Online), or Chief Executive Officer (for RMIT Training).

The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Experience Officer jointly submit endorsed consolidated fee templates to the Vice-Chancellor's Executive for approval. Approved tuition fees are submitted to the Academic Registrar's Group Enrolment and Student Records Student Financials team for publication in the Approved Schedule of Fees and Charges.

Only approved annual tuition fees are advertised to prospective and continuing students.

ANNUAL FEE SETTING - ADMINISTRATIVE AND MATERIALS FEES

The Student Financials team is responsible for managing the annual administrative and materials fee setting process in collaboration with fee coordinators. Fee coordinators must seek approval for new college and service portfolio administrative and materials fees from the relevant Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Chief Executive Officer for RMIT Training, or Chief Executive Officer for RMIT Online. Existing administrative and materials fees are reviewed annually.

The Student Financials team reviews new and reviewed administrative and materials fees for compliance with the Higher Education Support Act, compiling them within the Approved Schedule of Fees and Charges for approval. Approved administrative fees and charges are published by the Academic Registrar in the Schedule.

ANNUAL FEE SETTING - STUDENT SERVICES AND AMENITIES FEE

RMIT may charge different Student Services and Amenities Fees for particular categories of students, up to the maximum annual cap, in accordance with the Higher Education Support Act Administrative Guidelines. Student Services and Amenities Fees are determined by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor Education and submitted to the Vice-Chancellor's Executive for endorsement and Vice-Chancellor approval.

The Student Financials team is responsible for advising which cohorts of students will be subject to Student Services and Amenities Fees, calculating and configuring the rate to be charged to each student cohort (not exceeding the annual maximum fee), and publishing Student Services and Amenities Fee information for commencing and continuing students on the RMIT website before Enrolment Online opens for enrolments for the following year.

APPROVED SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES

The Schedule documents all fees and charges for enrolment or other engagement with RMIT and is published annually under the authority of the RMIT Council. Annual review of the Schedule is managed by the Student Financials team. The Schedule is submitted by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor Education to the Vice-Chancellor's Executive for endorsement and Vice-Chancellor approval.

The Student Financials team is responsible for publishing the approved Schedule for public access in accordance with legislative timelines, and configuration of fees in the student management system. Requests for amendments to the Schedule outside the annual process are subject to approval by the Academic Registrar.

KEY DEFINITIONS

Administrative fee: A range of fees and charges for goods or services that are not essential to a program or course (such as academic statements, graduation ceremony attendance, provision of letters), or fines and penalties imposed primarily as a disincentive (such as damages or non-return of equipment), or requests for administrative actions the provider has already provided for free.

Approved Schedule of Fees and Charges: Document published annually under the authority of RMIT Council which outlines all approved fees and charges that may be levied by RMIT for enrolment or other engagement with RMIT University, RMIT Training and RMIT Online.

Materials fee: A range of fees and charges associated with or essential to a program or course, in addition to tuition, where alternative forms of access to goods or services are not otherwise readily available at no additional cost by RMIT (such as lecture notes or recordings, reading material); or where students have the choice of acquiring materials from a supplier other than RMIT and which become the physical property of the student (such as reference texts, protective clothing and footwear, artwork supplies); or food, transport and accommodation costs associated with field trips that form part of the course or program.

Student Services and Amenities Fee (SSAF): A fee that RMIT elects to charge students for student services and amenities of a non-academic nature used to enhance the provision of activities and services that improve the student experience (such as sporting and recreational activities, employment and career advice, childcare, food services).
