RMIT Assessment and Assessment Flexibility Policy
Source: https://policies.rmit.edu.au/document/view.php?id=7

SECTION 1 - PURPOSE

This policy ensures relevant and authentic assessment that supports students to demonstrate evidence of learning at the appropriate level of study; flexible, equitable and inclusive assessment with a commitment to caring for students whose circumstances require assessment flexibility; quality and effectiveness of assessment consistent with learning outcomes; and fairness and transparency in assessment design, moderation, feedback and clear articulation of assessment criteria to students.

SECTION 2 - SCOPE

This policy applies to all courses and programs offered by RMIT including Higher Degree by Research, RMIT accredited programs, Vocational Education Programs, and Foundation Studies and Fast Track. For VCE and VCAL students, Assessment, Special Consideration, Extensions and Alternative Assessment Arrangements are regulated under the Victorian Curriculum and Assessment Authority (VCAA) instead.

ASSESSMENT FLEXIBILITY

The purpose of special consideration, extensions and individual assessment arrangements is to ensure that students experiencing extenuating circumstances or who have specific needs are appropriately supported and can seek assessment arrangements that provide the best circumstances for ongoing success in their program. Both discretion and flexibility are used in managing applications.

EXTENSIONS

Extensions are available for unforeseen circumstances of a short-term nature.

Applications are submitted to the school/industry cluster at least one working day before the due date for an assessment.

Extensions can be approved for up to one week (seven calendar days) after the due date for an assessment. From 3 June 2021, assessment adjustments may be granted on a seven (7) calendar day rolling basis where a student is impacted by COVID-19 Stay at Home Directions; this advice is reviewed annually.

The evidence in an application must clearly support the period for which an extension is sought.

The school/industry cluster will notify the student of the outcome of an application within two working days of the application being submitted.

Applications are approved by the responsible staff member in the school as determined by the Dean/Head of School/Cluster Director.

Where an application is approved, students meet the new assessment due date for submission of work or to undertake the assessment where attendance is required.

SPECIAL CONSIDERATION

Special consideration is available for unexpected circumstances outside students' control. These include but are not limited to unexpected short-term ill health, and unavoidable family, work, cultural or religious commitments.

An application for special consideration is made in advance of an assessment wherever possible, but normally within five working days after the assessment date.

Where a student is applying for late course withdrawal without academic penalty, they may apply up to one year after the date of their withdrawal from the course, or if they did not withdraw, within one year from the course end-date.

Course coordinators decide the form of equivalent assessment tasks where these are granted.

Students provide all relevant information with their application.

The University will determine one of the following outcomes for applications for special consideration: an equivalent assessment; an extension of time (exceeding seven calendar days); a deferred assessment; other arrangements deemed appropriate to the circumstances of the student and the course concerned; a late course withdrawal without academic penalty; special consideration is denied; cancellation of the application for lateness or incompleteness; or application withdrawn.

If the application is denied, the reasons for this will be provided in writing.

The evidence supporting an application applies to the dates for which special consideration is sought.

Students are notified if their application is incomplete and will have five working days to submit missing information or documentary evidence.

Applications lodged more than five working days after the due date are not considered unless the student can, with the application, provide compelling or compassionate reasons and evidence.

Complete applications that include supporting documentation and evidence are considered and responded to within 10 working days.

A student may withdraw an application for special consideration at any time.

A student may appeal a decision to deny them special consideration for an assessment.

EQUITABLE ASSESSMENT ARRANGEMENTS

Equitable assessment arrangements provide for a student's foreseeable needs or circumstances related to living with a disability, long-term illness and/or mental health condition, or primary carer responsibility for a person living with a disability, long-term illness and/or mental health condition.

An equitable assessment arrangement is an alteration to the standard conditions or format of an assessment. It can apply to any formal assessment task or examination described in the course guide.

Students apply to Equitable Learning Services for equitable assessment arrangements. Equitable Learning Services authorise that equitable assessment arrangements are allowed and make recommendations to the relevant Program Manager. Course coordinators determine the final form of assessment for their courses, which must take into account the recommended adjustments.

Applications include supporting documentation from a treating health practitioner who is registered with a recognised professional accreditation body, for example a doctor, psychologist or social worker.

Depending on a student's circumstances an equitable assessment arrangement may include: flexible conduct and supervision arrangements; use of ergonomic furniture or special seating arrangements; use of a computer for a traditionally paper-based examination; use of assistive technology; alternative format examination materials (e.g. large print, audio, Braille, electronic); additional reading and/or assessment time; rest breaks; enabling assistance (e.g., scribe, AUSLAN interpreters); alternative forms of assessment; and flexible timeframes for submission of work or attendance for assessment tasks.

The University makes every effort to accommodate students but cannot guarantee provision of a full range of assessment options. The time-frame, resource constraints and professional body registration requirements may affect the options available.

A student may appeal a decision to deny them an equitable assessment arrangement, or the conditions of a granted equitable assessment arrangement.

ACADEMIC INTEGRITY

Students demonstrate academic integrity in their assessment practices by engaging with assessment activities in an honest way, providing accountability for the authorship and originality of work submitted, and acknowledging the work of others and the re-use of original work.

Staff take an educative approach with students on academic integrity.

Academic misconduct is addressed in accordance with the Student Conduct Policy.

KEY DEFINITIONS

Assessment task: A specific instance of assessment such as an assignment, examination, portfolio, presentation, test, etc.; one component of assessment in a course.

Equivalent assessment: An equivalent assessment may be a different assessment task, or it may be the same assessment task held at another time. Other than in exceptional circumstances, an equivalent assessment will take place within 20 working days of the notification that it has been granted.

Hurdle assessment task: An assessment task the student must pass to pass the course: if a student fails a hurdle, they fail the course regardless of the total mark they receive.

Plagiarism: The presentation of the work, idea or creation of another person as though it is one's own. Plagiarism is a form of cheating and is a serious academic offence that may lead to expulsion from the University.
