RMIT Enrolment Procedure - Leave of Absence
Source: https://policies.rmit.edu.au/document/view.php?id=115

CONTEXT

RMIT students may apply for a leave of absence (LOA) while enrolled in their award program by submitting an application to the relevant area for approval. This procedure outlines LOA rules for RMIT students.

SCOPE

This procedure applies to all student cohorts enrolled in an RMIT award program and Foundation Studies and University Pathways Fast Track. LOA is not available to students in Victorian Certificate of Education or Victorian Certificate of Applied Learning programs.

ELIGIBILITY

Students may apply for LOA from RMIT for a defined period. In considering an application, it is the student's responsibility to seek appropriate advice before suspending their studies, be aware of the potential impact on their ability to successfully complete the program, and be aware of the consequences suspending their studies may have on their status as a student.

LOA for international students studying in Australia on a student visa can only be granted on compassionate or compelling grounds. Students on a student visa are advised to seek advice, including from the Department of Home Affairs, prior to applying for LOA.

LOA is not normally available to students in the first semester (or study period) of their program unless they can demonstrate exceptional circumstances. LOA is not available for prospective students who have been offered a place at RMIT but have not yet enrolled and wish to defer their studies - in these instances applicants may defer their enrolment instead.

LOA may not be available to students in programs delivered with industry partners. A student may be denied LOA at the discretion of the teaching school/industry cluster/college where the program is in teach-out and the requested leave would mean the student is unable to complete the program requirements on time. A student may also be denied LOA if they have exceeded the maximum total periods of leave allowed in their program.

DURATION OF LEAVE

LOA must have a definitive start date and must be for a specified amount of time, not exceeding one year. The total maximum period of leave for a student in a coursework program is 50% of the total duration of the program, unless exceptional circumstances apply and relevant approval is obtained.

APPROVING AUTHORITY AND REPORTING

The teaching school/industry cluster/college or RMIT Online may grant LOA to a student; in exceptional circumstances the University Secretary and Academic Registrar may do this. For coursework students, the Dean/Head of School/Cluster Director or nominee is authorised to approve applications for LOA of up to 50% of total program duration, or LOA that will bring the student's total leave in the program to two years.

LOA for a cumulative total of more than two years, or more than 50% of the duration of the program, may be approved in exceptional circumstances by the relevant College Deputy Vice-Chancellor (for coursework students) or the Associate Deputy Vice-Chancellor Research Training and Development (for HDR students).

If an application for LOA is rejected or varied, the student must be informed of the reasons and available review processes.

For international students studying in Australia on a student visa, the University will report the LOA to the Department of Home Affairs. This reporting may affect the student's visa and the student may be required to leave Australia while not enrolled.

FEE IMPLICATIONS

Where LOA is applied to a standard semester, students must withdraw from courses in the flexible term during their period of leave to avoid remaining liable for those tuition fees. Students who take an approved LOA before the relevant census date will have the relevant paid fees re-credited to their student account, excluding any applicable penalties. Students will remain liable for fees and may incur an academic penalty if they submit a request for LOA after the relevant census date.

A student granted LOA remains an RMIT student and is eligible to appeal a University decision to suspend, expel or exclude them, entitled to retain but not use their RMIT student card, entitled to have and use a student email account, entitled to apply for credit, and entitled to use academic and student support services. They remain responsible for checking their RMIT student email account, maintaining up-to-date contact details, and re-enrolling by the relevant dates.

REVIEW OF DETERMINATIONS

A student may seek a review of a decision to deny their application for LOA, or approval of LOA for a different period than requested. The student must request such a review within 20 working days of the date of the email notifying them of the decision.
