RMIT Enrolment Procedure
Source: https://policies.rmit.edu.au/document/view.php?id=113

CONTEXT

This procedure provides the rules and requirements for enrolment of students at RMIT.

SCOPE

This procedure applies to all students enrolled in programs and courses offered by the RMIT Group including RMIT University, RMIT Vietnam, RMIT University Pathways (RMIT UP), RMIT Online, and RMIT partner institutions. It does not apply to short courses and other industry training courses provided by RMIT UP and RMIT Online, or English Language Intensive Courses for Overseas Students (ELICOS) programs.

ENROLMENT

A student must formally enrol or re-enrol on or before the date prescribed each year. A person who is not enrolled by the published deadline for the relevant teaching period is not considered to be a student and does not have the responsibilities or entitlements described and provided for students. Higher education students undertaking an award program who fail to re-enrol by the published deadline must seek permission to continue their program; permission to enrol or take leave of absence (LOA) is granted at RMIT's discretion.

ENROLMENT LOADS

Full-time study load for an award program is 96 credit points in a year for higher education programs (except higher education coursework programs offered in Vietnam, which is 108 credit points), or the nominal hours for the program divided by the full-time duration for vocational education programs.

The minimum study load for a full-time program enrolment is 100% for student visa holders (unless otherwise approved), or 75% of the full-time study load for all other programs (except higher degrees by research, where full-time load is 100%).

MINIMUM AGE FOR ENROLMENT

Students must be at least 16 years of age on the commencement date of the program, course or unit in which they wish to enrol. The University Secretary and Academic Registrar will only permit the enrolment of an international student on a student visa who is under 18 years of age if they provide written consent of a parent or legal guardian to the enrolment, and written permission for the University to provide student information to a parent or legal guardian upon request.

ENROLMENT VARIATION

Once enrolment has been completed, students can vary their enrolment in accordance with the deadline published by the institution. A course withdrawal (drop) may incur an academic and/or financial penalty. A course withdrawal up to and including the census date does not incur an academic penalty.

CONTINUITY OF ENROLMENT AND LEAVE OF ABSENCE

To maintain continuity of enrolment in a program a student must, by the deadline published by the relevant institution, either re-enrol for the following academic year, or obtain approval for leave of absence (LOA). A student who wishes to suspend their studies and retain their place in a program for a specified period of time must apply for LOA by the relevant date to retain their rights as a continuing student. To be eligible to apply for LOA, the student must be currently enrolled in an RMIT award program and have been an enrolled student on the census date in their first semester. Coursework and non-award students follow the process prescribed by the Enrolment Procedure - Leave of Absence.

CANCELLATION OF PROGRAM ENROLMENT

A student may cancel their enrolment without penalty up to the dates and according to the processes prescribed by the relevant institution. Formal cancellation of enrolment may incur a financial penalty. International students on a student visa who withdraw from the program either before or after the agreed starting day of the program will be reported to the Australian government.

OVERLOAD ENROLMENT

Students may apply to enrol in courses above the standard full-time study load for their program, subject to approval from the relevant college/school/industry cluster (coursework) or the Associate Deputy Vice-Chancellor Research, Training and Development (HDR).

CITIZENSHIP/RESIDENCY STATUS CHANGE

If a student's citizenship or residency status changes after enrolment, the student is responsible for immediately notifying RMIT and providing evidence of their status. This change will be effective from the next applicable census date after the student has provided evidence.

EFFECT OF EXCLUSION, SUSPENSION OR EXPULSION

A person who has been expelled from an RMIT institution is no longer an RMIT enrolled student and is not permitted to enrol in any program or course at any RMIT institution.

A person who has been suspended is, for the period of the suspension, not permitted to enrol in any program or course. At the end of the suspension period, a student has the right to resume their studies in the same program, subject to availability, and must meet any conditions for resumption set by the institution.

A person who has been excluded from an RMIT program is not permitted to enrol in any courses for that program during the period of exclusion, but may apply for admission to other programs.

A student is entitled to maintain their enrolment during an internal appeal against, or a recognised external review of, a decision to exclude them for unsatisfactory academic progress.

STUDENT FEES AND CHARGES

The Approved Schedule of Fees and Charges is published annually under the authority of the RMIT University Council and outlines all fees that may be charged by RMIT for enrolment or other engagement with RMIT.
